## 2019-05-22 - Elastic Search / Architecture

### ES: Fuziness

Levenshtein edit distance accounts for:

- Substitution of characters (telephone => teleppone)
- Insertions of characters (telephone => telepphone)
- Deletion of characters (telephone => telehone)

These examples have an edit distance of 1.

There's a specific kind of query for fuziness:

```sh
curl -XGET -H'Content-Type: application/json' '127.0.0.1:9200/index/location/_search?pretty' -d'
{
  "query": {
    "fuzzy": { "title": { "value": "telepphone", "fuzziness": 1 } }
  }
}'
```

An `auto` fuzziness can be useful:

- 0 for 1-2 character strings
- 1 for 3-5 character strings
- 2 otherwise

Multi match queries also support fuzziness:

```sh
curl -XGET -H'Content-Type: application/json' '127.0.0.1:9200/movies/movie/_search?pretty' -d'
{
  "query": {
    "multi_match": { "query": "wars", "fields": ["title"], "fuzziness": 1 } }
  }
}'
```

But normal match queries don't seem to support it. When trying it:

```sh
curl -XGET -H'Content-Type: application/json' '127.0.0.1:9200/movies/movie/_search?pretty' -d'
{
  "query": {
    "match": { "title": "wars", "fuzziness": "1" } }
  }
}'
```

I get the following error:

```
{
  "error" : {
    "root_cause" : [
      {
        "type" : "parsing_exception",
        "reason" : "[match] query doesn't support multiple fields, found [title] and [fuzziness]",
        "line" : 4,
        "col" : 46
      }
    ],
    "type" : "parsing_exception",
    "reason" : "[match] query doesn't support multiple fields, found [title] and [fuzziness]",
    "line" : 4,
    "col" : 46
  },
  "status" : 400
}
```

### ES: Partial matching

Prefix queries are meant to run on non-analyzed fields. For example:

```sh
curl -XGET -H'Content-Type: application/json' '127.0.0.1:9200/movies/movie/_search?pretty' -d'
{
  "query": {
    "prefix": { "title.raw": "Star" } }
  }
}'
```

This query will find "Star Wars" records because their `title.raw`
field starts with "Stars". If we try "star" with a lowercase "s", it
won't find anything. Or even "Wars" because it's at the end of the
word.

Something interesting is that if we try a prefix query on an analyzed
field, it seems to fallback to a match query. A "Wars" query indeed
returns "Star Wars" results:

```sh
curl -XGET -H'Content-Type: application/json' '127.0.0.1:9200/movies/movie/_search?pretty' -d'
{
  "query": {
    "prefix": { "title": "wars" } }
  }
}'
```

There are also wildcard queries:

```sh
curl -XGET -H'Content-Type: application/json' '127.0.0.1:9200/movies/movie/_search?pretty' -d'
{
  "query": {
    "wildcard": { "title.raw": "St?r*" } }
  }
}'
```

They also don't work on analyzed fields and only support `?` and `*`
characters.  [The
docs](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/query-dsl-wildcard-query.html)
say we can use an asterisk at the beginning of a match, but in my
tests I couldn't get results with `* Wars`, although it should have
resulted in something.

### Architecture

I was reflecting upon the following concepts:

- Common Closure Principle (CCP)
- Reuse/Release Equivalence Principle (REP)
- Common Reuse Principle (CRP)

CCP is "group for maintenance", and it's what most projects will
likely start their life with. Suppose modules A to E and F to K are
parts of distinct components or bounded contexts. CCP drove the
creation of these components:

```
C1: A - B - C - D - E - F
C2: F - G - H - I - J - K
```

After some time, we extract D and E out of C1 and H out of C2 because
they need to be reused by both components. So we end up with the
following scenario:

```
C1 (depends on C3): A - B - C - F
C2 (depends on C3): F - G - I - J - K
C3: D - E - H
```

What principle drove the creation of C3? Clearly, it was REP, which
says "group for reusers". After some time, we create C4, which depends
on module "E" of C3. Thus we have:

```
C1 (depends on D, E, and H of C3): A - B - C - F
C2 (depends on D, E, and H of C3): F - G - I - J - K
C3: D - E - H
C4 (depends on E of C3): L - M
```

Now C3 gets updated with changes on module "D". What happens?  C4 will
need to be recompiled, even though it only depends on module "E". What
should we do if we want to prevent such cases? We create a new
component:

```
C1 (depends on C4 and C5): A - B - C - F
C2 (depends on C4 and C5): F - G - I - J - K
C3: D - H
C4 (depends on C5): L - M
C5: E
```

What principle drove the creation of C5? It was the CRP, which
says "split to avoid unneeded releases", or "don't force users
of a component to depend on things they don't need".

So there we have it:

- CCP: Inclusive principle
- REP: Inclusive principle
- CRP: Exclusive principle

And the tensions between principles:

- REP + CCP = Too many unneeded releases. Why? If C3 changes for C1,
C2 will also have to be released even though it doesn't have anything
to do.
- REP + CRP = Too many components impacted when simple changes are
  made. Why? Because there will be more components due to the CRP, and
  a change in one component will impact many others.
- CRP + CCP = Hard to reuse. Why? Because components driven by CRP
  will only be reusable in the context of CCP modules. I need to
  reflect more on this.
