## 2019-05-03 - Elastic Search / Clojure

## Elastic Search

### Sorting

One thing to know about sorting: you can't sort on analyzed
fields. The solution is to create a keyword copy of the given field,
like so:

```sh
curl -XPUT -H'Content-Type: application/json' 127.0.0.1:9200/movies/ -d '
{
    "mappings": {
        "movie": {
            "properties": {
                "title": {
                    "type": "text",
                    "fields": {
                        "raw": {
                            "type": "keyword"
                        }
                    }
                }
            }
        }
    }
}'
```

P.S.: You can't change existing mappings. You have to do redo it all over.

Then it will be possible to apply sorting with the following query:

```sh
curl -XGET -H'Content-Type: application/json' '127.0.0.1:9200/movies/movie/_search?sort=title.raw&pretty'
```

### Complex filters

A more complex filter example:

```sh
curl -XGET -H'Content-Type: application/json' '127.0.0.1:9200/movies/movie/_search?pretty' -d'
{
    "query": {
        "bool": {
            "must": { "match": { "genre": "Sci-Fi" } },
            "must_not": { "match": { "title": "trek" } },
            "filter": { "range": { "year": { "gte": 2010, "lt": 2015 } } }
        }
    }
}'
```

## Clojure

### Variables defined by `let` are not _vars_

This is a detail I haven't paid attention to. You can't grab a _var_
reference to a `foo` variable defined within a `let`:

```clj
(let [foo 1] #'foo) ;; Unable to resolve var: foo in this context
(def bar 1)
(let [foo 1] #'bar) ;; #'user/bar
```

Therefore `foo` can't be derefed.

Vars can slow down code just a little bit because they add
indirection, but their cost is worth because they allow for dynamic
programming. Their value is looked up at runtime, as opposed to
inlined by the compiler (which would require recompiling everything
to "refresh" references).

### Turning off an expression

Just do this:

```clj
(println "foo" #_(this "is" "disabled"))
```

The expression is turned off entirely, as if it does not exist. It does
not even evaluate to `nil`.

### Downsides of removing a namespace

To resolve problems with the REPL being out of sync with the code,
you usually do this:


```clj
(remove-ns 'my-ns)
;; trigger command to compile namespace again, thus redefining it.
```

But there are downsides:

- Namespaces relying on `'my-ns` will have to be reloaded. Not a
  problem if this is not the case.
- You will lose any temporary references you've set up while working.
  This will be less of a problem if you've documented your
  interactions with comment blocks.

A keybinding to _evaluate_ a comment block would be super
useful. Otherwise, reevaluating the inner region of the comment block
is necessary.

Also, a keybinding for removing a namespace and then recompiling would
also be super helpful.

### Making sure the REPL is in sync with the code

Run tests frequently _outside_ of the REPL, usually before commiting.
That will evidence outdated references and other problems. You can
also remove and reload the namespace if you want to.
